yo what is going on everyone welcome
back to another YouTube video so in this
video we're going to go over how to
optimize our mouses in order to make
sure that we're getting the lowest
possible input L and the smoothest
pulling rate variation on the mouse so
we're just going to go over some
physical things that you have to set up
before watching this video in order to
make sure that your mouse just doesn't
have any issues that are physical first
things first do not plug your mouse or
any latency sensitive device in the
front of the PC the front of the PC uses
the USB hub that comes with the case
which ideally is fine but I just put it
in the back like you might have gotten a
faulty USB hub from the case
manufacturer or something along those
lines just use the one directly on the
motherboard just to save yourself a lot
of headache so if you're on AMD there
are special USB hubs which basically are
controlled by the CPU and there are USB
hubs which are controlled by the chipset
aka the motherboard ideally you want to
use the CPU I'm not going to go over how
to do that on this video you can just go
watch one of my best hbps videos in
order to understand which USB ports that
you should be using for AMD for Intel it
generally doesn't matter just make sure
you're plugged into the Intel USB
controller then another thing is using a
quality mouse pad and a clean mouse pad
now I know a lot of you are lazy and
probably just haven't cleaned your
setups in months probably years so this
is probably a good time to take out your
mouse pad put it in the bathtub and
start Wasing that thing cuz I know it's
just disgusting and another thing is
cleaning the sensor inside of your Mouse
you could do that however I'd recommend
using something that just blows air into
it an air compressor is good but that
one might be too strong so just use one
of those things that you use to blow up
a balloon with that's just some of the
physical things that you could do in
order to make sure the mouse doesn't
have any problems and doesn't have any
issues now another thing is Wireless
versus wired ideally you just want wired
Wireless is great I like the concept of
having a wireless mouse you don't have
this cable dangling along that messes up
your aim but in some cases in some
households your wireless mouse will get
interrupted by other Wireless things in
your house so your pulling weate
variation is going to be all over the
place cuz of that so if that's not an
issue that you particularly have then by
all means go use a wireless mouse but if
you have like the router right next to
you like literally right on your desk
and you have your wireless mouse right
there you probably don't want that you
probably want to go get a Wired Mouse so
some of the best mouses that are out
right now one of them is the op 1 18K
which is a endgame 8,000 HZ Mouse which
is probably like the S Mouse that's
probably the best Mouse you can get at
the market right now so if you're
looking for that go get that another one
would be the Viper V3 Pro which is an
8,000 HZ Mouse basically if you have a
good PC go get a 8,000 HZ Mouse if you
don't really have a good PC just go get
a razor Viper mini or go get a G Pro or
something that some of the pros use but
without further Ado let's get right into
what you can do on Windows to make sure
that you have the lowest possible Mouse
latency and the lowest pulling rate
variation all right guys so head over to
the link in the description and download
the mouse optimization guide. zip file
and the password to this file is going
to be z.net all capital so just extract
it using WinRAR or szip and just type
z.net and it's going to extract so go in
the folder go in there and then the
first step we're going to do to optimize
our Mouse is unall the mouse software or
just use an alternative program that
doesn't run in the background so the
alternative program is just for ghub
only for other mouses there's not really
an alternative program that doesn't run
in the background but if your Mouse has
a program that doesn't run in the
background you just open it and you edit
your settings and then you can close it
and it closes out completely use that
perfectly fine you don't have to install
it but things like razor synaps Etc just
uninstall it there's no point and if you
use ghub uninstall it and use this
alternative instead and this is just
onboard memory manager it just edits the
memory on the mouse so it always saves
on the mouse no matter where you plug it
into so for me I'm on a razor Mouse so
we're going to do just Mouse settings
and this is just a general tip
regardless of what mouse you have now
homing rate is going to be the most
different with everyone here so if you
have a 8,000 HZ Mouse you could try
doing 8,000 HZ however for 8,000 HZ you
need to do special things for that so
number one is going to be being on
Windows 11 because they updated windows
on that version where it supports higher
pulling rate mouses now you could go and
get that or you can just stick to
Windows 10 and just drop down that
pulling rate but I'd recommend just
going to Windows 11 if you want 8,000 HZ
now if you're getting stutters or FPS
drops because of 8,000 hzz that just
means your system can't keep up with
8,000 HZ so you can just drop it down or
you can join my Discord server and get
your PC overclocked if you have high-end
specifications just because a lot of the
stuff regarding the mouse is just very
very system based I'm going to try to
make this video just strictly towards
the mouse but in order to have good
Mouse input delay you need to optimize
your whole system but we're just going
to leave it towards the mouse for this
video but if you're interested in
getting your system fully overclocked
I'm talking Ram CPU and GPU just go to
my Discord server and open up a ticket
with the overclocking services and
you'll get your PC overclocked with no
issues whatsoever but anyways once
you're in the software for example
synapse you're going to pretty much go
to Performance and then we're going to
turn off sensitivity stages we don't
want our DPI changing while we're
playing and for example I'm over here
using 1,600 DPI 800 and above is what
you should be using 400 DPI is just
outdated you're going to get higher
input delay with 400 DPI just because
there's less dots per inch that your
mouse sensor sees so the more DPI you
have the better technically but at some
point it just diminishing returns so I
recommend 1,600 DPI and then just divide
your in-game sense by however much you
increase your DPI by if you are on 400
DPI and you increase it to 1,600 DPI
just divide your in-game sense by four
and just use that ingame sense so I'm on
1,600 for example and I would recommend
that for most mouses pulling rate I'm at
th000 now again as I said earlier if
your system can't keep up with higher
pulling rate just drop it back down this
is more of a trial and error process for
pulling rate so if 4,000 htz is still
too much you could drop it down to 2,000
if that's still too much just do 1,000
most PCS should be able to do a thousand
however then you're going to go to
lighting let's just turn off RGB RGB is
going to cause the mouse to pull more
power and it's going to cause more heat
in the mouse and it's just going to
cause input delay there's some people
that say oh it's not that big of a
difference it's up to you we're making
this guide basically to get you the
lowest possible latency on the mouse so
if you care about RGB on the mouse by
all means use it however should just be
off if you care mostly about input DeLay
So once you've done all that this should
save on my mouse now I literally don't
have to do anything else so now I'm just
going to uninstall razor apps because I
don't want this running in the
background and I don't want it starting
up whenever I start my PC so I'm going
to uninstall it just like so uninstall
check that all right so once you've
uninstalled your mouse software or just
closed out of it completely you're going
to go to the second folder in the mouse
optimization guide and this is just some
basic Mouse tweak so for example this
disabled driver power saving what this
is going to do is in device manager
there is this stuff in your USB devices
where it sets it to power saving so for
example if you go to power management on
any of these B input devices you can see
that it allows the computer to turn off
this device to save power you obviously
don't want that check so running this
bat file just basically disables it for
everything that's connected to your PC
that is a USB now the second one is the
mouse tweaks and this is just general
tweaks that you should do for lower
Mouse latency so we have some BCD edit
tweaks that help with the timers on your
system then we have disabling Mouse
acceleration through registry and here's
the mark c mouse fix now all of this is
pretty simple it just helps your mouse
be good within windows but anyways once
you've run both of these you go back go
to Mouse number three and then this
basically sets a mouse driver which is
called csrss.exe in your system to high
priority now there is going to be a
revert for this I'm going to add it
later so if you need a revert this for
whatever reason you can but what this is
going to do is if you look into task
manager and go to details this process
right here csrss.exe this will be set to
high priority and this is good just
because it will prioritize your mouse
feel and it should just feel a lot
better so you just double click on this
press yes press okay and I'll add a
rever in here just because you guys some
of you might not like it so yeah and
then we're going to go back we're going
to go to proper way to set up timer
resolution so this is just going to take
you to a guide on my YouTube on how to
properly set up timer resolution on
Windows 11 now if you're on anything
below Windows 11 this is sadly not going
to work just because you need a specific
Windows version for timer resolution to
work and the reason for that is just
because after the 2020 May update of
Windows 10 timer resolution basically
just stopped working entirely they broke
it so if you want to get it working
either upgrade to Windows 11 or
downgrade to a Windows version that is
below Windows version 2004 and the
easiest way to check which Windows
version you're on you can just open up
your search bar on Windows type winver
and then you can check right here which
version you're on so that's up to you
guys if you want to switch and do a
complete reinstallation of Windows I
highly recommend doing it just because
time resolution setting up properly is
going to help a lot and there's some
fixes within Windows 11 that are
generally good for most systems now go
back to M optimization guide go to
number five and this is really important
this is the proper way to plug in your
USB ports on your motherboard so for
Intel it's super simple guys you just
plug it in the motherboard in the back
and then once you do that for example if
you go to device manager click view
device by connection scroll down and
expand the Intel extensible host
controller you'll see your mouse and
keyboard down here now if you're on AMD
you're going to have two of these or
maybe even more probably four of these
USB controllers and that's what this
guide is for just watch this video in
order to figure out which one of those
us USB controllers are the best for your
mouse keyboard or controller if you're
watching this on controller and then go
back to Mouse optimization guide and
this is just for ntel systems only this
is called disabling xhci interrupt
moderation and for most systems that are
high-end you can do this but if you're
probably on a low-end system like a
low-end Intel CPU that's quite old
probably test this around see if this
helps you what we're going to do for
this one specifically is we're going to
go to the first folder which is move
this to startup folder you're going to
right click on this click copy and at
the top of the search bar in Explorer
type shell go in start up press enter
you're going to right click under the
blank space click paste it's going to
add this disable imod dobat file and
then you're going to go back to the
entel only folder and then you're going
to go to move this to C drive you're
going to copy this you're going go to
your C drive and you're going to paste
this in here as you see I already have
it in there so I'm going to paste it in
it there you're going to go back and
then you're going to double click RW
everything and this is the program we're
going to be using and it disa this
feature within your USB controller so
press next press next install and press
finish you can close out of it now and
then if you go to move this to the
startup folder you could double click
disable imod and it should work and it
should pop up with those numbers and
then just close out of it means that it
works and the reason we added it into
shell startup is because if you go to
apps and then you go to Startup you will
see disable imod dobat is on Startup so
every time you dra up your PC it will
disable the setting now if you want to
revert this you just delete this file
from Shell startup so for example you
click this address bar right here type
shell startup and then just delete this
that's all you got to do you can also
uninstall the program that it uses to
disable imod that's if you want to
revert it I know some people have
noticed FPS drops with this disabled but
your input lag is drastically different
and again guys this is only for Intel on
AMD there is a way to do it I just don't
know how to do it and I don't really
have the time to figure out how so if
any of you are on AMD and figured out
how to disable imod leave it down in the
description maybe I'll make an updated
video with AMD but then if you do get an
error some of you might get an error on
Windows 11 if you can't load RW
everything like let just say you open it
and it gives you driver cannot be loaded
error just double click in this folder
and then just run this and restart to
fix press yes and press okay and what
that's going to do is going to fix it so
then you're able to disable imod but
some games will not work after running
this so the games like the finals csgo
might not work just because this disable
something within windows and I mean it's
just a security feature that we're
disabling to let RW everything run and
these games just have an anti-che that
doesn't really like that so if that
happens just run the revert file and
restart now we're going to go back to
the m optimization guide we're going to
go to windows power plan and then there
are two power plans that you should be
using and there are very specific to
your CPU so if you have an AMD CPU just
double click this one if you have an
entel CP double click this one so I'm on
entel I'm going to double click this as
you can see it will just flash and then
close now it's going to ask you for
administrator probably so just press yes
on that and that's pretty much it now
you should be on the best power plan for
entel or for AMD depending on what
system you're on and then once you do
that you can just pretty much restart
your PC and then once you restarted your
PC we can check your pulling rate
variation after doing all of this it
should be drastically different compared
to before so what you're going to do
you're going to double click on this
you're going double click the mouse
tester and then you're just going to
type your DPI in here so for example 400
DPI is going to be 400 CPI just type
1600 for me and then you're going to
click collect and then with this program
still selected in the bottom right here
as you can see I'm selecting it all you
have to do is just click on the spot
right here and draw a circle I'd say
draw around four circles and once you do
that it'll say press plot to view the
data you can press plot and then you
would change the plot type to frequency
versus time and as you can see my
pulling rate variation is pretty nice
right now I am recording I do have a lot
of stuff wrting in the background
ideally you don't want to run this with
stuff wrting in the background but as
you can see these dots are super close
to 1,000 htz which is what my mouse is
running at now for you it might be close
to 2,000 HZ or it might be close to
4,000 HZ or might be close to 8,000
either way you want these dots to be
super close to the number of your
pulling rate just because this means the
pulling rate variation is not bad and
it's very close to your pulling rate if
you have a lot of dots like going all
over the place for example I would
ignore this part right here this is
whenever you stopped clicking your mouse
so you would just type 3400 data
endpoint and this will show up while you
were moving your mouse around and as you
can see mine dropped down here which
isn't really that great but I'm getting
about 40 to 30 Hertz between 1,000 HZ
now ideally you want these dots as close
to the middle as possible if you have it
set up like how I did if you just added
the data end point to 3,400 so for
example I'll do this again so you going
to click collect draw four circles and
you want to do it at consistent speed
you don't want to be super fast and then
super slow the next Circle so it's it's
a bit of a trial and error process to
get this going but once you do figure it
out it's pretty easy so click plot
change the plot type to frequency versus
time and as you cas see this is where
I'm going to end off the data end point
250 2,500 data endpoint and as you can
see this is this result is slightly a
bit better we're now like 25 Hertz
between 1,000 so not bad at all but I do
have stuff run in the background so that
does affect it as you can see guys
that's pretty much how to check your
pulling rate variation and if you have a
lot of dots like all over the place like
down here and down here there is
something wrong with either your mouse
or you have it plugged into a bad USB
port or a lot of other things so
experiment with this is but the stuff
that we did in the mouse optimization
guide is going to help you guys a lot
it's going to make a massive difference
in how your game feels in your FPS but
anyways guys if you guys are interested
in getting significant performance
differences and a lot of changes done to
your mouse pulling rate variation and
just making this stable I would
recommend joining my Discord server and
getting an overclock done for your CPU
and RAM CPU and RAM is practically the
most important thing that you have to
get overclocked in your PC just because
it will lower your latency by drastic
amount and from some overclocks like for
example the ram overclock you will gain
30% more FPS in games like Call of Duty
in games like fortnite you might gain
50% it really just depends but I highly
recommend if you're looking for super
low latency get your stuff overclocked
if it is overclockable but for most of
you ram should be overclockable if your
motherboard supports Ram overclock now
guys if you're interested in that go
join the Discord server and go to the
overclocking Services Channel where
you'll see the ticket maker in order to
make a ticket for overclocking but
anyways guys hope you guys enjoyed leave
a like subscribe to the channel comment
down below what you want to see next and
I'll see you guys in the next one peace
out